# PACBook

PACBook is a suite of pre-processing tools for working with XML documentation. It deals
with two inter-related areas:

1. Translating documents;

2. The linguistic consequences of
[transclusion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transclusion) and / or [conditional
processing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conditional_%28computer_programming%29).

PACBook was originally written for pre-processing [DocBook XML](http://docbook.org/)
files. Parts of it are specific to DocBook 5.0 or later. However, most of it is intended
for general use with any XML documentation schema, even SVG images.

## Documentation

For information on each stylesheet, see the
[wiki](wiki) or the Documentation folder.

## Prerequisites

To run PACBook, you need an XSLT processor compatible with [XSLT 1.0 or
1.1](http://www.w3.org/TR/xslt) and [eXSLT](http://exslt.org/). PACBook has been tested
with [XSLTProc](http://xmlsoft.org/libxslt/) and [Saxon
6.5.5](http://saxon.sourceforge.net/saxon6.5.5/).

PACBook is a pre-processor. It doesnâ€™t produce formatted output. You will require third
party processing tools to take the XML that PACBook produces and and turn it into
something meaningful. For example, you can use the [DocBook XSL
stylesheets](http://docbook.sourceforge.net/) to turn a pre-processed DocBook file into
Web help or an ePub file. Or you could use [Apache
Batik](https://xmlgraphics.apache.org/batik/) to render a pre-processed SVG file as PNG
or JPEG.

The stylesheet **DBProfile.xsl** relies on the [DocBook XSL
stylesheets](http://docbook.sourceforge.net/). The stylesheet **RefResolve.xsl** relies
on the [Apache Commons XML Catalog
resolver](https://projects.apache.org/projects/xml_commons_resolver.html).

Finally, to save processing time and bandwidth, you should set up an [XML
catalog](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/14809/xml-catalogs.html) so
that your XSLT processor uses local copies of all stylesheets and data files.

[DocBook XSL: The Complete Guide](http://www.sagehill.net/docbookxsl/) by Bob Stayton
contains comprehensive instructions for setting up an XSLT processor, the DocBook XSL
stylesheets, and XML catalog files.

## Installation

Clone the project, or click on **Download Zip** and unzip it to a directory of your
choice.

## Running

PACBook is a set of small XSLT stylesheets, each of which does one particular job.

Example 1: create an XLIFF diff file using XSLTProc

	xsltproc --stringparam Xliff Current_Translations.de.xliff \
	         --stringparam Language de \
	         --output Changed_Translations.de.xliff \
	         $PACBOOK/xsl/XlateDiff.xsl \
	         My_File.docbook

Example 2: create an XLIFF diff file using Saxon

	java com.icl.saxon.StyleSheet -o Changed_Translations.de.xliff \
	                              My_File.docbook \
	                              $PACBOOK/xsl/XlateDiff.xsl \
	                              Xliff=Current_Translations.de.xliff \
	                              Language=de

## Pipelining

To use PACBook most effectively you should chain the stylesheets together so that each
successive stylesheet works on the output of the previous one.

You can use a shell script, batch file or Apache ANT build script to chain stylesheets
together, but the most effective method would be to use an [XProc](http://xproc.org/)
pipeline. More information on this soon.

## License

PACBook is released under the LGPL. See the **LICENSE** file.

PACBook includes code from the XSLT Standard Library project, which is also released
under the LGPL.

## Contributions

Contributions are welcome. In particular, PACBook needs translations and contributions
from linguists for the syntactic dictionaries. Please fork the code and send a pull
request!

## Acknowledgements

Thanks to:

* STANLEY Security for help and support when developing and releasing these tools.

* Edwin Beasant, Peter Crowther, Mina Nielsen for suggestions on licensing.
