<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="ID">
	<title>DBLists</title>
	<refentry>
		<refmeta>
			<refentrytitle>DBLists</refentrytitle>
		</refmeta>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname>DBLists.xsl</refname>
			<refpurpose>Turns simple inline lists into punctuated lists and adds a final “and” or “or” in the appropriate language.</refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<title>Parameters</title>
			<para>None.</para>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Input</title>
			<para>A DocBook document containing <tag class="element">simplelist type='inline'</tag> elements.</para>
		</refsect1>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Output</title>
			<para>A DocBook document, identical to the input except that any <tag class="element">simplelist type='inline'</tag> elements are replaced with punctuated inline lists with a final “and” or “or” in the appropriate language.</para>
		</refsect1>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Description</title>
			<para>The stylesheet recurses through the document and copies each element. For each <tag class="element">simplelist type='inline'</tag> element, the members of the list are output as a comma separated inline list.</para>
			<para>If the <tag class="attribute">role</tag> attribute of the <tag class="element">simplelist</tag> is set to <tag class="attvalue">and</tag>, the conjunction “and” is added before the final member of the list in the language specified by the nearest ancestor <tag class="attribute">xml:lang</tag> attribute. Likewise, if the <tag class="attribute">role</tag> attribute of the <tag class="element">simplelist</tag> is set to <tag class="attvalue">or</tag>, the conjunction “or” is added before the final member of the list in the language specified by the nearest ancestor <tag class="attribute">xml:lang</tag> attribute.</para>
			<para>This stylesheet has similar functionality to the way <tag class="element">simplelist type='inline'</tag> elements are processed by the DocBook XSL stylesheets. The differences are:</para>
			<orderedlist numeration="arabic">
				<listitem>
					<para>The final conjunction is specified via the <tag class="attribute">role</tag> attribute.</para>
				</listitem>
				<listitem>
					<para>For languages which require it, the final conjunction is output within a wrapper element with the <tag class="attribute">ling:type='depend'</tag> attribute. This enables you to use the <link xl:href="#LingDepend.xsl">LingDepend.xsl</link> stylesheet on the output file to select the correct form of the final conjunction, depending on the phonetic environment.</para>
				</listitem>
			</orderedlist>
			<para>For example, in Spanish, if the <tag class="attribute">role</tag> attribute is set to <tag class="attvalue">and</tag>, the <link xl:href="#LingDepend.xsl">LingDepend.xsl</link> stylesheet will change the final conjunction to <foreignphrase>e</foreignphrase> if the following word begins with an “i” sound, or <foreignphrase>y</foreignphrase> otherwise. (There must be wrapper elements, e.g. <tag class="element">phrase</tag>, around each term in the list, using the <tag class="attribute">ling:pron</tag> attribute to indicate the initial sound of each term.)</para>
			<para>The final conjunctions are specified in the <filename>DataLabels.xml</filename> file. The supported languages are German, English, Spanish, Finnish, French, Italian, Norwegian Bokmål, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish and Simplified Chinese.</para>
		</refsect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
