<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="pacbook.db.profile">
	<title>DBProfile</title>
	<refentry>
		<refmeta>
			<refentrytitle>DBProfile</refentrytitle>
		</refmeta>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname>DBProfile.xsl</refname>
			<refpurpose>Enables you to include or exclude parts of a document conditionally based on the document’s ID.</refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<title>Parameters</title>
			<para>All of the DocBook XSL stylesheet profiling parameters, except for <parameter>profile.condition</parameter> — see below.</para>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Input</title>
			<para>A DocBook document with conditional profiling attributes.</para>
		</refsect1>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Output</title>
			<para>A profiled DocBook document.</para>
		</refsect1>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Description</title>
			<para>This stylesheet is a custom layer which imports the <filename>profile.xsl</filename> stylesheet from the DocBook XSL stylesheets.</para>
			<para>For quicker processing and to save network bandwith, you should set up your XML catalog so that <uri>http://docbook.sourceforge.net/release/xsl-ns/current/profiling/profile.xsl</uri> is redirected to your local copy of <filename>profile.xsl</filename>.</para>
			<para>This stylesheet takes the <tag class="attribute">xml:id</tag> attribute from the root element in the document and passes that to <filename>profile.xsl</filename> as the value of the <parameter>profile.condition</parameter> parameter. The result of this is that any elements in the document which have the <tag class="attribute">condition</tag> attribute set to the document’s XML ID are included in the output; any which have the <tag class="attribute">condition</tag> attribute set to something else are excluded.</para>
			<para>This enables you to specify that certain parts of a subdocument should be omitted and certain parts kept when the subdocument is transcluded into a particular master document, based solely on that master document’s ID.</para>
			<para>If necessary, you can supply a fake ID value to the <filename>profile.xsl</filename> stylesheet by adding a <tag class="attribute">condition</tag> attribute to the root element of the master document. The stylesheet will take this as the value of the <parameter>profile.condition</parameter> parameter in preference to the root <tag class="attribute">xml:id</tag> attribute.</para>
			<para>It is recommended to perform conditional profiling as a separate step when using PACBook. For example, you should process parametrised transclusion <emphasis>before</emphasis> conditional profiling, and you should process dynamic links, simple lists and syntactic processing <emphasis>after</emphasis> conditional profiling.</para>
		</refsect1>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Roadmap</title>
			<para>Add support for <tag class="attribute">its:localeFilterList</tag> and <tag class="attribute">its:localeFilterType</tag> attributes.</para>
		</refsect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
