<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="pacbook.db.procs">
	<title>DBProcs</title>
	<refentry>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname>DBProcs.xsl</refname>
			<refpurpose>Transforms PAC processing instructions in DocBook documents.</refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<title>Parameters</title>
			<para>None.</para>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Input</title>
			<para>A DocBook file containing PAC processing instructions as described below.</para>
		</refsect1>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Output</title>
			<para>A DocBook file in which the PAC processing instructions have been transformed as described below.</para>
		</refsect1>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Description</title>
			<para>The stylesheet copies the structure and content of the input document to the output document. Any PAC processing instructions within the input document are transformed as follows.</para>
			<refsect2>
				<title><tag class="xmlpi">pac-revhistory</tag></title>
				<para>You can use this processing instruction to place a revision history table at a precise place in the document. When the stylesheet encounters this processing instruction, it builds a DocBook <tag class="element">informaltable</tag> containing four columns: <emphasis role="strong">Version</emphasis>, <emphasis role="strong">Date</emphasis>, <emphasis role="strong">Author</emphasis> and <emphasis role="strong">Detail</emphasis>. The table uses the CALS table model.</para>
				<para>The table header is populated in the language specified by the nearest ancestor <literal>xml:lang</literal> attribute. The labels are taken from <literal>DataLabels.xml</literal>. The only fully-supported languages at present are German, English, Spanish, French and Dutch.</para>
				<para>Each table row is populated by the details given in the <tag class="element">revhistory</tag> element in the document’s <tag class="element">info</tag> section, if there is one.</para>
				<para>The attributes of the <tag class="element">informaltable</tag>, e.g. framing, row separators and column separators, are given by the <literal>pac.revhistory.table</literal> attribute set. The attributes of the four columns, e.g. column width, are given by the <literal>pac.revhistory.col.version</literal>, <literal>pac.revhistory.col.date</literal>, <literal>pac.revhistory.col.author</literal> and <literal>pac.revhistory.col.detail</literal> attribute sets.</para>
			</refsect2>
			<refsect2>
				<title><tag class="xmlpi">pac-applicability</tag></title>
				<para>You can use this processing instruction to place an applicability table at a precise place in the document. When the stylesheet encounters this processing instruction, it builds a DocBook <tag class="element">informaltable</tag> containing four columns: <emphasis role="strong">Product</emphasis>, <emphasis role="strong">Name</emphasis>, <emphasis role="strong">Detail</emphasis> and <emphasis role="strong">Version</emphasis>. The table uses the CALS table model.</para>
				<para>The table header is populated in the language specified by the nearest ancestor <literal>xml:lang</literal> attribute. The labels are taken from <literal>DataLabels.xml</literal>. The only fully-supported languages at present are German, English, French and Dutch.</para>
				<para>Each table row is populated by the details given in the document’s <link xl:href="#RDF-Applicability">applicability metadata</link>, if there are any.</para>
				<para>The attributes of the <tag class="element">informaltable</tag>, e.g. framing, row separators and column separators, are given by the <literal>pac.applicability.table</literal> attribute set. The attributes of the four columns, e.g. column width, are given by the <literal>pac.applicability.col.product</literal>, <literal>pac.applicability.col.name</literal>, <literal>pac.applicability.col.detail</literal> and <literal>pac.applicability.col.version</literal> attribute sets.</para>
			</refsect2>
			<refsect2>
				<title><tag class="xmlpi">pac-pubsnumber</tag></title>
				<para>When the stylesheet encounters this processing instruction it creates a copy of the content of the <tag class="element">biblioid @class='pubsnumber'</tag> element in the document’s <tag class="element">info</tag> section, if there is one.</para>
			</refsect2>
			<refsect2>
				<title><tag class="xmlpi">pac-edition</tag></title>
				<para>When the stylesheet encounters this processing instruction it creates a copy of the content of the <tag class="element">edition</tag> element in the document’s <tag class="element">info</tag> section, if there is one.</para>
			</refsect2>
			<refsect2>
				<title><tag class="xmlpi">pac-releaseinfo</tag></title>
				<para>When the stylesheet encounters this processing instruction it creates a copy of the value of the <literal>status</literal> attribute on the document’s root element, if there is one.</para>
			</refsect2>
		</refsect1>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Roadmap</title>
			<para>The <tag class="xmlpi">pac-releaseinfo</tag> processing instruction should actually output the document’s release info...</para>
		</refsect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
