<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="ID">
	<title>DocTools</title>
	<refentry>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname></refname>
			<refpurpose></refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<synopsis></synopsis>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
<para>
  Sets the orthographic case of specified text in an XML document.
</para>
<sect1 id="parameters">
  <title>Parameters</title>
  <para>
    <literal>[ShortWords]</literal>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        <emphasis role="strong">ShortWords</emphasis> (string) — English
        words which should not be capitalised in title case.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="input">
  <title>Input</title>
  <para>
    An XML document. You must mark up the source document with
    linguistic attributes describing the orthographic case which is
    required for the specified text — see description below.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="output">
  <title>Output</title>
  <para>
    An XML document, identical to the input except that marked text is
    set to the required orthographic case.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="description">
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
    The stylesheet recurses through the document and copies each
    element. If any element has the <literal>ling:orth</literal>
    attribute, the stylesheet changes the case of the text nodes in this
    element and all descendent elements.
  </para>
  <para>
    This is useful for transclusion. If you transclude a term at the
    start of a sentence, you may want to set the case of the transcluded
    term to sentence case. If you transclude a term into a title, you
    may want to set the case of the transcluded term to title case.
  </para>
  <para>
    This stylesheet is only relevant to languages which use orthographic
    case. The stylesheet supports all alphabets supported by the
    <ulink url="http://xsltsl.sourceforge.net/">XSL Standard
    Library</ulink> string stylesheets, including Latin, Greek and
    Cyrillic.
  </para>
  <para>
    The namespace URI for the linguistic attributes is
    <literal>http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics</literal>.
  </para>
  <para>
    The <literal>ling:orth</literal> attribute may have any of the
    following values:
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        upper
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        lower
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        sentence
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        title
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <sect2 id="upper">
    <title>Upper</title>
    <para>
      Changes the case of text nodes to upper case. This is applied to
      text in the current element and all descendent elements, unless
      any descendent elements have a different
      <literal>ling:orth</literal> attribute.
    </para>
  </sect2>
  <sect2 id="lower">
    <title>Lower</title>
    <para>
      Changes the case of text nodes to lower case. This is applied to
      text in the current element and all descendent elements, unless
      any descendent elements have a different
      <literal>ling:orth</literal> attribute.
    </para>
  </sect2>
  <sect2 id="sentence">
    <title>Sentence</title>
    <para>
      Finds the first text node child of the current element and changes
      the first character of the word to upper case. The rest of the
      text nodes in this element and all descendent elements are left
      unchanged, unless any descendent elements have a different
      <literal>ling:orth</literal> attribute.
    </para>
  </sect2>
  <sect2 id="title">
    <title>Title</title>
    <para>
      Splits the text into words (at spaces). If a word is
      <emphasis>not</emphasis> listed in the
      <literal>ShortWords</literal> parameter, changes the first
      character of the word to upper case. This is applied to text nodes
      in the current element and all descendent elements, unless any
      descendent elements have a different <literal>ling:orth</literal>
      attribute.
    </para>
    <para>
      Title case only supports English. For other languages, use
      sentence case. The default value of the
      <literal>ShortWords</literal> parameter is hard coded into the
      stylesheet.
    </para>
  </sect2>
</sect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
