<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="ID">
	<title>DocTools</title>
	<refentry>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname></refname>
			<refpurpose></refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<synopsis></synopsis>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
<para>
  Selects the required declension of head nouns in an XML document.
</para>
<sect1 id="parameters">
  <title>Parameters</title>
  <para>
    None.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="input">
  <title>Input</title>
  <para>
    An XML document. You must mark up the source document with
    linguistic attributes describing the syntactic case and / or
    definiteness required for each head noun in the document.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="output">
  <title>Output</title>
  <para>
    An XML document, identical to the input except that head nouns are
    declined for syntactic case and / or definiteness.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="description">
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
    The stylesheet recurses through the document and copies each
    element. If any element is marked as a head noun, the stylesheet
    selects the correct declension based on the syntactic case and
    definiteness specified by the nearest ancestor element.
  </para>
  <para>
    This is useful when you need to transclude a term into a sentence
    and want to select the correct form of the term, depending on the
    case and / or definiteness required in the target sentence.
  </para>
  <para>
    When you define a noun for transclusion, you must include in the
    transcluded text all the possible forms of the head noun in the
    current language. Each form must be wrapped in a suitable spanning
    element, e.g. <literal>&lt;phrase&gt;</literal> in DocBook,
    <literal>&lt;ph&gt;</literal> in DITA or
    <literal>&lt;span&gt;</literal> in HTML. Each form should have the
    <literal>ling:type='head'</literal> to indicate that it is a head
    noun, and should also have <literal>ling:case</literal> and
    <literal>ling:class</literal> attributes to specify the case and /
    or definiteness of each form, depending on the language.
  </para>
  <para>
    At each location where the term is to be transcluded, you must wrap
    the transcluded term and any preceding or following dependent words,
    e.g. articles or adjectives, in another spanning element. This
    spanning element should be marked up with the case and / or
    definiteness you require for this instance of the term, depending on
    the current language.
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        The <literal>ling:case</literal> attribute may have any string
        value, as long as it matches a value used to mark case in the
        PACBook syntactic dictionary for the current language. In the
        PACBook syntactic dictionaries, the values used are
        <literal>nom</literal> for nominative, <literal>acc</literal>
        for accusative, <literal>gen</literal> for genitive and
        <literal>dat</literal> for dative. The <literal>gen</literal>
        case is used to mark the possessive in English. If the
        stylesheet cannot determine the required case for a transcluded
        term, it assumes the nominative form is required.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        The <literal>ling:class</literal> attribute may have any string
        value, as long as it matches a value used to mark inflectional
        class in the PACBook syntactic dictionary for the current
        language. In the PACBook syntactic dictionaries, the values used
        in German are <literal>strong</literal>, <literal>weak</literal>
        and <literal>mixed</literal>; the values used in Dutch, Swedish
        and Norwegian are <literal>ind</literal> for indefinite,
        <literal>def</literal> for definite. If the stylesheet cannot
        determine the required inflectional class for a transcluded
        term, it assumes the indefinite form is required.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <para>
    The namespace URI for the linguistic attributes is
    <literal>http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics</literal>.
  </para>
  <para>
    This stylesheet should be applied after the head nouns have all been
    transcluded into place. When the stylesheet finds a head element, it
    checks whether the element’s definiteness and / or case match the
    definiteness and / or case of the nearest ancestor element. If they
    match, the head element is copied to the output; if not, the head
    element and all its descendent elements are deleted.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="roadmap">
  <title>Roadmap</title>
  <para>
    In DocBook files, this stylesheet matches
    <literal>&lt;token&gt;</literal> elements as well as elements with
    the <literal>ling:type='head'</literal> attribute. This may be
    removed in a future release.
  </para>
</sect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
