<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="ID">
	<title>DocTools</title>
	<refentry>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname></refname>
			<refpurpose></refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<synopsis></synopsis>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
<para>
  Uses a <ulink url="http://www.tei-c.org/">TEI</ulink> syntactic
  dictionary to inflect specified words, e.g. determiners, adjectives,
  and relative pronouns, in an XML document.
</para>
<sect1 id="parameters">
  <title>Parameters</title>
  <para>
    <literal>[Verbose]</literal>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        <emphasis role="strong">Verbose</emphasis> (Boolean) — Whether
        full error messages should be displayed.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="input">
  <title>Input</title>
  <para>
    An XML document. You must mark up the source document with
    linguistic attributes identifying the dependent words in the
    document and describing the syntactic and / or phonetic environment
    for each dependent word.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="output">
  <title>Output</title>
  <para>
    An XML document, identical to the input except that dependent words
    are inflected by phonology, case, gender and number.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="description">
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
    The stylesheet recurses through the document and copies each
    element. If any element has the attribute
    <literal>ling:type='depend'</literal>, the stylesheet changes the
    text nodes in this element to match the phonological and syntactic
    environment.
  </para>
  <para>
    This is useful for transclusion. If you transclude a term into a
    document, you can inflect dependent words such as determiners,
    adjectives, and relative pronouns which surround the transcluded
    term.
  </para>
  <para>
    To determine the phonetic environment for a dependent word, the
    stylesheet looks for the nearest following sibling element which has
    a <literal>ling:pron</literal> attribute, or which has a child
    element with a <literal>ling:pron</literal> attribute.
  </para>
  <para>
    To determine the syntactic environment for a dependent word, the
    stylesheet looks for the nearest element in the document tree with a
    <literal>ling:num</literal>, <literal>ling:case</literal>,
    <literal>ling:gen</literal> or <literal>ling:class</literal>
    attribute. In elements containing a single head word, these
    attributes can be marked on the head word. (The head word must be
    wrapped in a suitable element such as
    <literal>&lt;phrase&gt;</literal> in DocBook.) In elements
    containing multiple head words, attributes which are intrinsic to
    the head word (i.e. <literal>ling:num</literal> and
    <literal>ling:gen</literal>) may be marked on the head word, and
    attributes which describe the syntactic role of the word in the
    sentence (i.e. <literal>ling:case</literal> and
    <literal>ling:class</literal>) may be marked on another wrapper
    element that surrounds a single head word and all its dependent
    words.
  </para>
  <para>
    The linguistic attributes are as follows:
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        <literal>ling:pron</literal> — Indicates the pronunciation or
        phonetic environment that the head word governs. This is not the
        full pronunciation of the word. For most languages that require
        this feature, <literal>ling:pron=&quot;V&quot;</literal>
        indicates that the word is pronounced with an initial vowel;
        <literal>ling:pron=&quot;C&quot;</literal> that the word is
        pronounced with an initial consonant. The value of the attribute
        can be tailored to the language. So for Italian,
        <literal>ling:pron=&quot;S&quot;</literal> indicates that the
        word is pronounced with an initial “s” cluster, “gn”, “ps”, “x”
        or “z”. For Spanish, <literal>ling:pron=&quot;A&quot;</literal>
        indicates that the word has an initial stressed “a”.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        <literal>ling:num</literal> — Indicates grammatical number.
        Possible values are <literal>sg</literal> singular,
        <literal>pl</literal> plural, etc.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        <literal>ling:case</literal> — Indicates grammatical case.
        Possible values are <literal>nom</literal> nominative,
        <literal>gen</literal> genitive, <literal>dat</literal> dative,
        <literal>acc</literal> accusative, etc.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        <literal>ling:gen</literal> — Indicates grammatical gender.
        Possible values are <literal>c</literal> common,
        <literal>m</literal> masculine, <literal>f</literal> feminine,
        <literal>n</literal> neutral, etc.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        <literal>ling:class</literal> — Indicates the inflection class.
        Possible values are <literal>def</literal> definite,
        <literal>ind</literal> indefinite, <literal>strong</literal>,
        <literal>weak</literal>, <literal>mixed</literal>, etc.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <para>
    The namespace URI for the linguistic attributes is
    <literal>http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics</literal>.
  </para>
  <para>
    Having found the head word and determined the syntactic and phonetic
    environment, the stylesheet looks for the correct syntactic
    dictionary for the current language, as specified by the nearest
    ancestor <literal>xml:lang</literal> attribute. The syntactic
    dictionaries are XML dictionaries using a schema which complies with
    the dictionary module of the Text Encoding Initiative
    <ulink url="http://www.tei-c.org/">TEI</ulink>. The dictionaries are
    primarily designed to handle words in closed semantic categories,
    e.g. definite and indefinite articles, demonstrative adjectives. The
    dictionaries also contains common contractions, such as German
    <emphasis>im</emphasis>, <emphasis>vom</emphasis>,
    <emphasis>beim</emphasis>, or French <emphasis>des</emphasis>,
    <emphasis>aux</emphasis>. Words in open semantic categories pose
    more of a problem. They does not yet contain very many adjectives.
  </para>
  <para>
    The syntactic dictionaries for the supported languages are stored in
    the <literal>tei</literal> subdirectory.
  </para>
  <para>
    The stylesheet uses the text content of the dependent word to look
    up the correct word in the dictionary. It then uses the syntactic
    and phonetic environment to select the correct inflected form of the
    word, and copies this into the document.
  </para>
  <para>
    If the <literal>Verbose</literal> parameter is set to true, i.e.
    anything other than 0 or the empty string, detailed messages are
    displayed as each dependent word is inflected. This can help to work
    out what’s gone wrong when a word is not inflected properly.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="roadmap">
  <title>Roadmap</title>
  <para>
    In DocBook files, this stylesheet matches
    <literal>&lt;wordasword&gt;</literal> elements as well as elements
    with the <literal>ling:type='depend'</literal> attribute. This may
    be removed in a future release.
  </para>
</sect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
