<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="ID">
	<title>DocTools</title>
	<refentry>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname></refname>
			<refpurpose></refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<synopsis></synopsis>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
<para>
  Not all of PACBook’s features are natively available in DocBook 5.0.
  PACBook provides a custom RelaxNG schema to enable them.
</para>
<para>
  <literal>pacbook.rng</literal> adds the following features to the
  DocBook 5.0 <literal>docbookxi.rng</literal> schema.
</para>
<sect1 id="elements">
  <title>Elements</title>
  <para>
    <literal>pacbook.rng</literal> adds the following elements in the
    DocBook namespace.
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        An optional <literal>&lt;title&gt;</literal> element as an
        initial child of the <literal>&lt;extendedlink&gt;</literal>
        element. This can contain text and all inline elements. It takes
        all common DocBook attributes. By default the
        <literal>xl:type</literal> attribute is set to
        <literal>title</literal>. This element enables you to define a
        title for an extended link.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Any number of optional <literal>&lt;resource&gt;</literal>
        elements within the <literal>&lt;extendedlink&gt;</literal>
        element. This can contain text, all block elements and all
        inline elements. It takes all common DocBook attributes. By
        default the <literal>xl:type</literal> attribute is set to
        <literal>resource</literal>. This element enables you to define
        a resource in an extended link.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="attributes">
  <title>Attributes</title>
  <para>
    <literal>pacbook.rng</literal> adds the following to the DocBook
    common attributes:
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        All ITS 2.0 local attributes in the
        <ulink url="http://www.w3.org/TR/its20/">ITS</ulink> namespace.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        The <literal>xlf:id</literal> attribute. This is in the
        <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
        namespace and contains an NMToken. It is used for PACBook
        translation — see
        <ulink url="XlateMarkup.xsl">XlateMarkup.xsl</ulink>.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        The <literal>content:ref</literal> attribute. This is in the
        <ulink url="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion">PACBook
        transclusion</ulink> namespace and contains an NMToken. It is
        used for parametrised transclusion — see
        <ulink url="TransParam.xsl">TransParam.xsl</ulink>.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        The following linguistic markup attributes. They are in the
        <ulink url="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics">PACBook
        linguistics</ulink> namespace and contain NMTokens. They are
        used for linguistic pre-processing.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <para>
    <literal>ling:type</literal> — marks government and binding. Set to
    <literal>head</literal> for inflected head nouns,
    <literal>depend</literal> for inflected dependent words. See
    <ulink url="LingHead.xsl">LingHead.xsl</ulink>,
    <ulink url="LingDepend.xsl">LingDepend.xsl</ulink>.
  </para>
  <para>
    <literal>ling:pron</literal> — marks pronunciation of a head word.
    See <ulink url="LingDepend.xsl">LingDepend.xsl</ulink>.
  </para>
  <para>
    <literal>ling:gen</literal> — marks syntactic gender. See
    <ulink url="LingDepend.xsl">LingDepend.xsl</ulink>.
  </para>
  <para>
    <literal>ling:num</literal> — marks syntactic number. See
    <ulink url="LingDepend.xsl">LingDepend.xsl</ulink>.
  </para>
  <para>
    <literal>ling:case</literal> — marks syntactic case. See
    <ulink url="LingHead.xsl">LingHead.xsl</ulink>,
    <ulink url="LingDepend.xsl">LingDepend.xsl</ulink>.
  </para>
  <para>
    <literal>ling:class</literal> — marks syntactic definiteness. See
    <ulink url="LingHead.xsl">LingHead.xsl</ulink>,
    <ulink url="LingDepend.xsl">LingDepend.xsl</ulink>.
  </para>
  <para>
    <literal>ling:orth</literal> — marks orthographic case. See
    <ulink url="LingCasing.xsl">LingCasing.xsl</ulink>.
  </para>
  <sect2 id="note">
    <title>Note</title>
    <para>
      PACBook also adds the <literal>outputformat</literal> attribute in
      the DocBook namespace as a common attribute. This is due to be
      added in DocBook 5.1 anyway; I’ve added it to PACBook because I
      found it useful.
    </para>
  </sect2>
</sect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
