<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="ID">
	<title>DocTools</title>
	<refentry>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname></refname>
			<refpurpose></refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<synopsis></synopsis>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
<para>
  To use the PACBook stylesheets to translate an XML document, you need
  to tell PACBook where the translations for that document are. You do
  this by adding translation metadata to the document.
</para>
<sect1 id="where-to-add-translation-metadata">
  <title>Where to Add Translation Metadata</title>
  <para>
    Translation metadata takes the form of RDF triples. You add it to
    the metadata section of the XML document. So, for a DocBook 5.0
    document, you add it to the <literal>&lt;info&gt;</literal> element
    at the start of the document. For an SVG document, you add it to the
    <literal>&lt;metadata&gt;</literal> element at the start of the
    document.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="how-to-write-it">
  <title>How to Write It</title>
  <para>
    Typical translation metadata for a DocBook document looks like this:
  </para>
  <programlisting>
&lt;rdf:RDF xmlns:rdf=&quot;http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#&quot;
         xmlns:bibo=&quot;http://purl.org/ontology/bibo/&quot;
         xmlns:vivo=&quot;http://vivoweb.org/ontology/core#&quot;
    &lt;bibo:Document rdf:about=&quot;&quot;&gt;
        &lt;vivo:hasTranslation xml:base=&quot;http://DBK/Topics/512_Series/xlate/&quot;&gt;
            &lt;rdf:Alt&gt;
                &lt;rdf:li xml:lang=&quot;de&quot; rdf:resource=&quot;ac_de.xliff&quot;/&gt;
                &lt;rdf:li xml:lang=&quot;es&quot; rdf:resource=&quot;ac_es.xliff&quot;/&gt;
                &lt;rdf:li xml:lang=&quot;fr&quot; rdf:resource=&quot;ac_fr.xliff&quot;/&gt;
                &lt;rdf:li xml:lang=&quot;nb&quot; rdf:resource=&quot;ac_nb.xliff&quot;/&gt;
                &lt;rdf:li xml:lang=&quot;nl&quot; rdf:resource=&quot;ac_nl.xliff&quot;/&gt;
                &lt;rdf:li xml:lang=&quot;sv&quot; rdf:resource=&quot;ac_sv.xliff&quot;/&gt;
                &lt;rdf:li xml:lang=&quot;zh&quot; rdf:resource=&quot;ac_zh.xliff&quot;/&gt;
            &lt;/rdf:Alt&gt;
        &lt;/vivo:hasTranslation&gt;
        &lt;!-- Other RDF properties ... --&gt;
    &lt;/bibo:Document&gt;
&lt;/rdf:RDF&gt;
</programlisting>
  <para>
    In this example:
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        The <literal>&lt;bibo:Document&gt;</literal> element declares
        that this file is a document and that it this document is the
        subject of the translation metadata. You could (but don’t have
        to) use <literal>&lt;bibo:Image&gt;</literal> instead of
        <literal>&lt;bibo:Document&gt;</literal> in translation metadata
        that applies to an SVG file.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        The <literal>&lt;vivo:hasTranslation&gt;</literal> element
        declares that this document has translations associated with it.
        The optional <literal>xml:base</literal> attribute can be used
        to indicate where all the translations are.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        The translations are indicated by
        <literal>&lt;rdf:li&gt;</literal> elements all wrapped within
        the <literal>&lt;rdf:Alt&gt;</literal> element. For each
        translation, the <literal>xml:lang</literal> attribute
        represents the language; the <literal>rdf:resource</literal>
        attribute shows the name of the
        <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
        file which contains the translation in that language. The
        <literal>rdf:resource</literal> attribute may contain an
        absolute or relative URI; if relative, it is combined with the
        <literal>xml:base</literal> attribute of the
        <literal>&lt;vivo:hasTranslation&gt;</literal> element to define
        the full URI.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Notice that you need to declare the <literal>rdf</literal>,
        <literal>bibo</literal> and <literal>vivo</literal> namespaces.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="translation-metadata-for-part-of-a-document">
  <title>Translation Metadata for Part of a Document</title>
  <para>
    Different parts of a document might store their translations in
    different
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    files. To specify translation metadata for part of a file, you add
    it to the metadata section for that part. So, to specify translation
    metadata that only applies to a particular chapter in a DocBook
    file, you would add the translation metadata to the
    <literal>&lt;info&gt;</literal> element at the start of the chapter.
    This would override any translation metadata at the start of the
    book.
  </para>
  <para>
    You could (but don’t have to) use
    <literal>&lt;bibo:DocumentPart&gt;</literal> instead of
    <literal>&lt;bibo:Document&gt;</literal> in translation metadata
    that only applies to part of a document.
  </para>
  <para>
    To work out which XLIFF file to use when translating a particular
    element, the PACBook stylesheets look for the nearest ancestor
    element which has a child element which contains translation
    metadata as described above.
  </para>
</sect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
