<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="ID">
	<title>DocTools</title>
	<refentry>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname></refname>
			<refpurpose></refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<synopsis></synopsis>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
<para>
  You can add applicability metadata to a DocBook document to declare
  the hardware or software products that the document applies to.
</para>
<sect1 id="where-to-add-applicability-metadata">
  <title>Where to Add Applicability Metadata</title>
  <para>
    Applicability metadata takes the form of RDF triples. For a DocBook
    5.0 document, you add it to the <literal>&lt;info&gt;</literal>
    element at the start of the document.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="how-to-write-it">
  <title>How to Write It</title>
  <para>
    Typical applicability metadata for a DocBook document looks like
    this:
  </para>
  <programlisting>
&lt;rdf:RDF xmlns:rdf=&quot;http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#&quot;
         xmlns:bibo=&quot;http://purl.org/ontology/bibo/&quot;
         xmlns:vivo=&quot;http://vivoweb.org/ontology/core#&quot;
         xmlns:doap=&quot;http://usefulinc.com/ns/doap#&quot;&gt;
    &lt;bibo:Document rdf:about=&quot;&quot;&gt;
        &lt;vivo:hasSubjectArea&gt;
            &lt;rdf:Bag&gt;
                &lt;rdf:li rdf:parseType=&quot;Resource&quot;&gt;
                    &lt;doap:shortdesc&gt;P/N 1234&lt;/doap:shortdesc&gt;
                    &lt;doap:name&gt;Foo 3000&lt;/doap:name&gt;
                    &lt;doap:description&gt;Quantum Accelerator&lt;/doap:description&gt;
                    &lt;doap:revision&gt;1.0.1&lt;/doap:revision&gt;
                &lt;/rdf:li&gt;
                &lt;rdf:li rdf:parseType=&quot;Resource&quot;&gt;
                    &lt;doap:shortdesc&gt;P/N 5678&lt;/doap:shortdesc&gt;
                    &lt;doap:name&gt;Foo Explorer&lt;/doap:name&gt;
                    &lt;doap:description&gt;Config File Viewer&lt;/doap:description&gt;
                    &lt;doap:revision&gt;1.0.2&lt;/doap:revision&gt;
                &lt;/rdf:li&gt;
            &lt;/rdf:Bag&gt;
        &lt;/vivo:hasSubjectArea&gt;
        &lt;!-- Other RDF properties ... --&gt;
    &lt;/bibo:Document&gt;
&lt;/rdf:RDF&gt;
</programlisting>
  <para>
    In this example:
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        The <literal>&lt;bibo:Document&gt;</literal> element declares
        that this file is a document and that this document is the
        subject of the applicability metadata.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        The <literal>&lt;vivo:hasSubjectArea&gt;</literal> element
        declares that this document applies to the following products.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        The products are indicated by <literal>&lt;rdf:li&gt;</literal>
        elements all wrapped within the
        <literal>&lt;rdf:Bag&gt;</literal> element. Each
        <literal>&lt;rdf:li&gt;</literal> element has
        <literal>rdf:parseType</literal> set to
        <literal>Resource</literal>; this enables you to specify the
        properties of each product inline.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        The properties of each product are indicated by elements in the
        <literal>doap</literal> namespace. In PACBook,
        <literal>&lt;doap:shortdesc&gt;</literal> is used for the
        product’s part number, <literal>&lt;doap:name&gt;</literal> is
        used for the product name,
        <literal>&lt;doap:description&gt;</literal> for a description of
        the product and <literal>&lt;doap:revision&gt;</literal> for the
        product version number.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Note that you need to declare the <literal>rdf</literal>,
        <literal>bibo</literal>, <literal>vivo</literal> and
        <literal>doap</literal> namespaces.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="roadmap">
  <title>Roadmap</title>
  <para>
    The ultimate intention is that each
    <literal>&lt;rdf:li&gt;</literal> could point to an external RDF
    resource which contains the details of the product in a single
    location, e.g. in a products database. This is not yet implemented.
  </para>
</sect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
