<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="ID">
	<title>DocTools</title>
	<refentry>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname></refname>
			<refpurpose></refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<synopsis></synopsis>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
<para>
  Uses the Apache Catalog Resolver to resolve URIs, e.g. image file
  references, against an XML catalog.
</para>
<sect1 id="parameters">
  <title>Parameters</title>
  <para>
    None.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="input">
  <title>Input</title>
  <para>
    A DocBook document, in which some images have a
    <literal>fileref</literal> attribute which is set to a URI.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="output">
  <title>Output</title>
  <para>
    A DocBook document, identical to the input except that any
    <literal>fileref</literal> attributes are resolved against the XML
    catalog.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="description">
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
    The stylesheet recurses through the document and copies each
    element. If any element has the attribute
    <literal>fileref</literal>, which contains a URI starting with
    <literal>http://</literal>, the stylesheet resolves the URI against
    the XML catalog.
  </para>
  <para>
    This is useful if you wish to reference remote resources in the
    document.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="notes">
  <title>Notes</title>
  <para>
    This stylesheet only works with Java-based XSLT processors. It has
    been tested with Saxon 6.5.5. To use it, you must:
  </para>
  <orderedlist numeration="arabic">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Download the XML Catalog Resolver from the
        <ulink url="http://xerces.apache.org/xml-commons/">Apache XML
        Commons</ulink>.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Set up your XML catalog correctly.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Configure your <literal>CatalogManager.properties</literal> file
        to point to your XML catalog.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Add <literal>resolver.jar</literal> and
        <literal>CatalogManager.properties</literal> to your classpath
        when you invoke the XSLT processor.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </orderedlist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="roadmap">
  <title>Roadmap</title>
  <para>
    Generalise to work with any specified attribute in any specified
    namespace.
  </para>
</sect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
