<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="ID">
	<title>DocTools</title>
	<refentry>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname></refname>
			<refpurpose></refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<synopsis></synopsis>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
<para>
  Makes sure that abbreviations are punctuated correctly after
  transclusion.
</para>
<sect1 id="parameters">
  <title>Parameters</title>
  <para>
    <literal>[abbrevClassRef]</literal>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        <emphasis role="strong">abbrevClassRef</emphasis> (URI) — a URI
        that identifies abbreviations. Default
        http://dbpedia.org/ontology/abbreviation.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="input">
  <title>Input</title>
  <para>
    An XML document. Any abbreviations whose punctuation needs checking
    must be marked up with ITS 2.0 text analysis attributes as described
    below.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="output">
  <title>Output</title>
  <para>
    An XML document, identical to the input except that abbreviations
    are punctuated correctly.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="description">
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
    The stylesheet recurses through the document and copies each
    element. If any element has the attribute
    <literal>its:taClassRef='http://dbpedia.org/ontology/abbreviation'</literal>,
    the stylesheet adds punctuation to the element according to the
    following algorithm:
  </para>
  <orderedlist numeration="arabic">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        If the text within the element already ends with a full stop,
        the full stop is stripped off;
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        If there is a full stop immediately following the element, the
        element is written to the output document with no following full
        stop; otherwise, the element is written to the output document
        with a following full stop.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </orderedlist>
  <para>
    This means that the abbreviation will be written out with just one
    following full stop. If you transclude the abbreviation at the end
    of sentence it will <emphasis>not</emphasis> end up with two
    following full stops.
  </para>
  <para>
    To use the <literal>its:taClassRef</literal> attribute you must set
    <literal>its:version='2.0'</literal> on the element or on the
    containing document.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="roadmap">
  <title>Roadmap</title>
  <para>
    In DocBook files, this stylesheet matches
    <literal>&lt;abbrev&gt;</literal> elements as well as elements with
    the
    <literal>its:taClassRef='http://dbpedia.org/ontology/abbreviation'</literal>
    attribute. This may be removed in a future release.
  </para>
</sect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
