<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="ID">
	<title>DocTools</title>
	<refentry>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname></refname>
			<refpurpose></refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<synopsis></synopsis>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
<para>
  Makes sure that numbers are punctuated correctly according to the
  document language.
</para>
<sect1 id="parameters">
  <title>Parameters</title>
  <para>
    <literal>[numberClassRef]</literal>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        <emphasis role="strong">numberClassRef</emphasis> (URI) — a URI
        that identifies numbers. Default
        http://dbpedia.org/ontology/number.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="input">
  <title>Input</title>
  <para>
    An XML document. Any numbers which need localisation must be marked
    up with ITS 2.0 text analysis attributes as described below.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="output">
  <title>Output</title>
  <para>
    An XML document, identical to the input except that numbers are
    localised.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="description">
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
    The stylesheet recurses through the document and copies each
    element. If any element has the attribute
    <literal>its:taClassRef='http://dbpedia.org/ontology/number'</literal>
    and contains just a plain XML number, i.e. with no grouping
    separators and a full stop for the decimal separator, the stylesheet
    formats the number according to the language defined by the nearest
    ancestor <literal>xml:lang</literal> attribute.
  </para>
  <para>
    Usually you would rely on translators to localise the format of
    numbers in the document. This stylesheet is useful if you want to
    enforce a consistent number format for each locale, or if any
    translation strings contain just numbers and you don’t want to
    bother translating them.
  </para>
  <para>
    The following languages are currently supported:
    <literal>en-GB</literal>, <literal>en-US</literal>,
    <literal>fr</literal>, <literal>de</literal>, <literal>nl</literal>,
    <literal>es</literal>, <literal>sv</literal>, <literal>nb</literal>,
    <literal>pt</literal>, <literal>it</literal>, <literal>fi</literal>,
    <literal>zh</literal> and the special ISO language codes
    <literal>und</literal>, <literal>mul</literal>,
    <literal>mis</literal> and <literal>zxx</literal>. The localisation
    formats are taken from
    <ulink url="http://www-01.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSS28S_3.0.0/com.ibm.help.forms.doc/locale_spec/i_xfdl_r_locale_quick_reference.html">IBM</ulink>.
  </para>
  <para>
    To use the <literal>its:taClassRef</literal> attribute you must set
    <literal>its:version='2.0'</literal> on the element or on the
    containing document.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="roadmap">
  <title>Roadmap</title>
  <para>
    In DocBook files, this stylesheet matches
    <literal>&lt;abbrev&gt;</literal> elements as well as elements with
    the
    <literal>its:taClassRef='http://dbpedia.org/ontology/number'</literal>
    attribute. This may be removed in a future release.
  </para>
</sect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
