<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="ID">
	<title>DocTools</title>
	<refentry>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname></refname>
			<refpurpose></refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<synopsis></synopsis>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
<para>
  Enables fine-grained fixup of <literal>xml:id</literal> attributes
  after transclusion.
</para>
<sect1 id="parameters">
  <title>Parameters</title>
  <para>
    <literal>[idRole]</literal>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        <emphasis role="strong">idRole</emphasis> (URI) — A URI which
        identifies the ID fixup XLink role. Default is
        http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/role/id.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="input">
  <title>Input</title>
  <para>
    An XML document containing extended links to fix up transcluded XML
    IDs as described below.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="output">
  <title>Output</title>
  <para>
    An XML document, identical to the input except that XML IDs are
    fixed up.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="description">
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
    This stylesheet is useful if you have a subdocument which contains
    XML IDs and which must be transcluded into an assembly file or
    master document in two or more places. In order to avoid validation
    errors, each ID must be unique. The process of making duplicate IDs
    unique is called ID fixup. Other ID fixup mechanisms take a blanket
    approach to fixup, e.g. by adding a suffix to each ID in the
    transcluded subdocuments. This stylesheet is useful for cases when a
    fine-grained approach is required. It enables you to specify by hand
    how each transcluded ID should be fixed up, using XLinks.
  </para>
  <para>
    In the assembly file or master document, at each point where you
    want to transclude the target subdocument, you must add an extended
    link element with the <literal>xl:role</literal> attribute set to
    the specified fixup role URI. For each ID that will need fixing up,
    this extended link should contain:
  </para>
  <orderedlist numeration="arabic">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        A locator element with an <literal>xl:label</literal> attribute
        unique within the extended link, whose
        <literal>xl:href</literal> attribute points to one
        <literal>xml:id</literal> attribute in the subdocument.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        A locator element with an <literal>xl:label</literal> attribute
        unique within the extended link, whose
        <literal>xl:href</literal> attribute points to the new ID that
        you want the target subdocument to use.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        An arc element whose <literal>xl:from</literal> attribute is set
        to the <literal>xl:label</literal> attribute of the start
        locator and whose <literal>xl:to</literal> attribute is set to
        the <literal>xl:label</literal> attribute of the fixup locator.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </orderedlist>
  <para>
    When run, the stylesheet recurses through the document and copies
    each element. If any element has an <literal>xml:id</literal>
    attribute, the stylesheet looks for the nearest ancestor element
    which contains an extended link whose <literal>xl:role</literal>
    attribute is set to the specified ID fixup role URI
    <emphasis>and</emphasis> which contains a locator element whose
    <literal>xl:href</literal> attribute points to the current
    <literal>xml:id</literal> attribute. If it finds a matching locator,
    the stylesheet follows the arc to the target locator and replaces
    the value of the current <literal>xml:id</literal> attribute with
    the value indicated by the target locator’s
    <literal>xl:href</literal> attribute.
  </para>
  <para>
    You should run this stylesheet immediately after transclusion. If
    any of your translation strings contain <literal>xml:id</literal>
    attributes, you may need to run this stylesheet again immediately
    after translation.
  </para>
  <para>
    After you have fixed up IDs, you may also need to fix up cross
    references or links that point to those IDs. See
    <ulink url="TransLinks.xsl">TransLinks.xsl</ulink>.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="roadmap">
  <title>Roadmap</title>
  <para>
    At present this stylesheet requires that the extended links,
    locators and arcs are DocBook
    <literal>&lt;extendedlink&gt;</literal>,
    <literal>&lt;locator&gt;</literal> and
    <literal>&lt;arc&gt;</literal> elements, meaning that the stylesheet
    only works with DocBook. In future releases, this stylesheet will be
    updated to work with any elements with attributes
    <literal>xl:type='extended'</literal>,
    <literal>xl:type='locator'</literal> or
    <literal>xl:type='arc'</literal>. This will make the stylesheets
    work with any XLink-compliant XML schema, including DocBook 5.1.
  </para>
</sect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
