<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="pacbook.xliff.import">
	<title>XL2Xliff</title>
	<refentry>
		<refmeta>
			<refentrytitle>XL2Xliff</refentrytitle>
		</refmeta>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname>XL2Xliff.xsl</refname>
			<refpurpose>Imports from a Microsoft Excel 2003 XML workbook to an <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> file.</refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<title>Parameters</title>
			<para>None.</para>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Input</title>
			<para>A Microsoft Excel 2003 XML workbook.</para>
		</refsect1>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Output</title>
			<para>An <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> file.</para>
		</refsect1>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Description</title>
			<para>The stylesheet exports the content of a Microsoft Excel 2003 XML workbook to an <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> file.</para>
			<para>The workbook’s <property>Source</property> custom property is exported as the <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> file’s <tag class="attribute">original</tag> attribute. The <property>Language</property> custom property is exported as the <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> file’s <tag class="attribute">source-language</tag> attribute. The <property>Destination</property> custom property is exported as the <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> file’s <tag class="attribute">target-language</tag> attribute.</para>
			<para>The <property>Title</property>, <property>Subject</property> and <property>Version</property> properties of the workbook are exported to the <tag class="element">note</tag> element within the <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> file’s <tag class="element">header</tag> element.</para>
			<para>The spreadsheet to be exported must be titled <literal>Xlate</literal>. Every other spreadsheet in the workbook is ignored.</para>
			<para>Within the exported spreadsheet, each row is exported to a single translation unit. The first row in the spreadsheet is assumed to be a header row and is ignored.</para>
			<para>In each row, the content of the first column is exported as the <tag class="attribute">ID</tag> attribute of the translation unit. The content of the second column is exported as the content of the <tag class="element">source</tag> element. The content of the third column is exported as the content of the <tag class="element">target</tag> element. The content of the fourth column, if any, is exported as the content of the <tag class="element">note</tag> element. All other content is ignored.</para>
		</refsect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
