<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="ID">
	<title>DocTools</title>
	<refentry>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname></refname>
			<refpurpose></refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<synopsis></synopsis>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
<para>
  Checks an XML document against an existing translation in the
  specified language and generates a new
  <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
  file containing the strings which are new or changed.
</para>
<sect1 id="parameters">
  <title>Parameters</title>
  <para>
    <literal>(Language | Xliff)</literal>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        <emphasis role="strong">Language</emphasis> (string) — ISO
        language code
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        <emphasis role="strong">Xliff</emphasis> (URI) — The URI of the
        <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
        file you want to compare
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="input">
  <title>Input</title>
  <para>
    An XML document. You must mark up the source document with:
  </para>
  <orderedlist numeration="arabic">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        The <literal>xlf:id</literal> attributes which uniquely identify
        each translation string.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Optionally, <ulink url="RDF-Translations">translation
        metadata</ulink>, showing the location of the
        <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
        files which contain the translations of the document — this is
        only required if you are not specifying the
        <literal>Xliff</literal> parameter explicitly.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </orderedlist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="output">
  <title>Output</title>
  <para>
    An
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    document.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="description">
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
    The stylesheet examines the source file for translatable elements.
    (A translatable element is one which has an
    <literal>xlf:id</literal> attribute and does not have the
    <literal>its:translate=&quot;no&quot;</literal> attribute.)
  </para>
  <para>
    For each translatable element, the stylesheet looks for the
    specified
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    file, or if not specified, the
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    file that corresponds to the specified output language, according to
    the <ulink url="RDF-Translations">translation metadata</ulink>.
  </para>
  <para>
    If the
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    file is found, the stylesheet searches for the translation unit with
    the same <literal>xlf:id</literal>, and compares its source with the
    translatable element in the source document.
  </para>
  <para>
    If the corresponding translation unit does not exist in the
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    file, a new translation unit is written to the output document which
    contains this translatable element as its source.
  </para>
  <para>
    If the corresponding translation unit exists in the
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    file, but its source is different from the translatable element in
    the source document, a translation unit is written to the output
    document which contains this translatable element as its source and
    the target text from the original
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    file as its target.
  </para>
  <para>
    If the corresponding translation unit exists in the
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    file, and its source is the same as the translatable element in the
    source document, and the target is empty or marked as incomplete,
    the translation unit is copied from the original
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    file to the output document.
  </para>
  <para>
    If the corresponding translation unit exists in the
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    file, and its source is the same as the translatable element in the
    source document, and the target is not empty or marked as
    incomplete, there is no output.
  </para>
  <para>
    If the
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    file is not found, there is no output.
  </para>
  <sect2 id="note">
    <title>Note</title>
    <para>
      In the output file, all <literal>&lt;trans-unit&gt;</literal>
      elements are contained in a single, flat
      <literal>&lt;file&gt;</literal> element. Any multiple
      <literal>&lt;file&gt;</literal> or
      <literal>&lt;group&gt;</literal> elements from the original
      <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
      file are not copied to the output file.
    </para>
  </sect2>
</sect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
