<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="pacbook.xlate.merge">
	<title>XlateMerge</title>
	<refentry>
		<refmeta>
			<refentrytitle>XlateMerge</refentrytitle>
		</refmeta>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname>XlateMerge.xsl</refname>
			<refpurpose>Checks an XML document against an existing translation and a differential translation in the specified language and generates a new <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> file merging the two translations.</refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<title>Parameters</title>
			<synopsis>(Language | Xliff)  Diff</synopsis>
			<itemizedlist>
				<listitem>
					<para><parameter>Language</parameter> (string) — ISO language code,</para>
				</listitem>
				<listitem>
					<para><parameter>Xliff</parameter> (URI) — The URI of the original <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> file</para>
				</listitem>
				<listitem>
					<para><parameter>Diff</parameter> (URI) — The URI of the differential <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> file</para>
				</listitem>
			</itemizedlist>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Input</title>
			<para>An XML document. You must mark up the source document with:</para>
			<orderedlist numeration="arabic">
				<listitem>
					<para>The <tag class="attribute">xlf:id</tag> attributes which uniquely identify each translation string.</para>
				</listitem>
				<listitem>
					<para>Optionally, <link xl:href="#RDF-Translations">translation metadata</link>, showing the location of the <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> files which contain the translations of the document — this is only required if you are not specifying the <parameter>Xliff</parameter> parameter explicitly.</para>
				</listitem>
			</orderedlist>
		</refsect1>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Output</title>
			<para>An <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> document.</para>
		</refsect1>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Description</title>
			<para>The stylesheet examines the source file for translatable elements. (A translatable element is one which has an <tag class="attribute">xlf:id</tag> attribute and does not have the <tag class="attribute">its:translate='no'</tag> attribute.)</para>
			<para>For each translatable element, the stylesheet searches the differential <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> file for the translation unit with the same <tag class="attribute">xlf:id</tag>. If found, and if the target of the translation unit has the attribute <tag class="attribute">status='translated'</tag>, this translation unit is copied to the output.</para>
			<para>If the translation unit is not found in the differential <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> file, the stylesheet looks for the specified original <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> file, or if not specified, the <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> file that corresponds to the specified output language, according to the <link xl:href="#RDF-Translations">translation metadata</link>.</para>
			<para>If the original <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> file is found, the stylesheet searches for the translation unit with the same <tag class="attribute">xlf:id</tag>. If found, this translation unit is copied to the output.</para>
			<para>If the corresponding translation unit does not exist in the differential <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> file or the original <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> file, there is no output.</para>
			<para>If the original <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> file is not found, there is no output.</para>
			<refsect2>
				<title>Note</title>
				<para>In the output file, all <tag class="element">trans-unit</tag> elements are contained in a single, flat <tag class="element">file</tag> element. Any multiple <tag class="element">file</tag> or <tag class="element">group</tag> elements from the original or differential <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> files are not copied to the output file.</para>
			</refsect2>
		</refsect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
