<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="pacbook.xlate.markup">
	<title>XlateMarkup</title>
	<refentry>
		<refmeta>
			<refentrytitle>XlateMarkup</refentrytitle>
		</refmeta>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname>XlateMarkup.xsl</refname>
			<refpurpose>Marks up translatable elements in an XML document with a unique <tag class="attribute">xlf:id</tag> attribute.</refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<title>Parameters</title>
			<synopsis>[ITS] [Counter] [Carried]</synopsis>
			<itemizedlist>
				<listitem>
					<para><parameter>ITS</parameter> (URI) — URI of the <link xl:href="http://www.w3.org/TR/its20/">ITS</link> rules file, absolute or relative to the stylesheet</para>
				</listitem>
				<listitem>
					<para><parameter>Counter</parameter> (URI) — URI of the input counter file, absolute or relative to the input document</para>
				</listitem>
				<listitem>
					<para><parameter>Carried</parameter> (URI) — URI of the output counter file, absolute or relative to the input document</para>
				</listitem>
			</itemizedlist>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Input</title>
			<para>An XML document. DocBook is supported by default; SVG to follow.</para>
		</refsect1>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Output</title>
			<para>An XML document, identical to the input except that translation strings are uniquely identified by auto-generated <tag class="attribute">xlf:id</tag> attributes.</para>
		</refsect1>
		<refsect1>
			<title>Description</title>
			<para>The stylesheet first looks for the translation unit counter specified by the <parameter>Counter</parameter> parameter. This translation unit counter is an automatically-generated XML document containing a single element, <tag class="element">data:counter xmlns:data='urn:x-pacbook:data'</tag>. The <tag class="element">data:counter</tag> element contains a text node, which must be an integer. It can also have a single attribute, <tag class="attribute">prefix</tag>, which should contain an alphanumeric string.</para>
			<para>The purpose of the translation unit counter is to keep track of the translation unit IDs which have been assigned to this document, and ensure that newly marked-up translatable elements get unique IDs. The simplest use case would be to have a single translation unit counter for all your documents. Realistically you would use more than one translation counter. Several related documents might share a translation unit counter; this would imply that the related documents are all translated together, using a single <link xl:href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</link> file for each target language. You could also, if you wanted, use a different prefix with each translation unit counter, but this is not necessary.</para>
			<para>If the translation unit counter is not specified, it is assumed to be <filename>counter.xml</filename> in the same location as the input document.</para>
			<para>If the specified translation unit counter is not found, the prefix is assumed to be <tag class="attvalue">u</tag> and the count is set to 0.</para>
			<para>The stylesheet then looks for the specified <link xl:href="http://www.w3.org/TR/its20/">ITS</link> rules file. This is a set of <link xl:href="http://www.w3.org/TR/its20/">ITS</link> 2.0 rules that specify which elements in the input file correspond to translation units. For each <tag class="element">its:withTextRule</tag> element in the <link xl:href="http://www.w3.org/TR/its20/">ITS</link> rules file, if the <tag class="attribute">withinText</tag> attribute is set to <tag class="attvalue">no</tag>, the elements specified by the <tag class="attribute">selector</tag> attribute correspond to translation units. If no <link xl:href="http://www.w3.org/TR/its20/">ITS</link> rules file is specified, the default is the <filename>DocBook.its</filename> file supplied with this stylesheet.</para>
			<para>The stylesheet then copies the structure and content of the input document to the output document. Any elements which match the specified <link xl:href="http://www.w3.org/TR/its20/">ITS</link> rules are marked up with a unique <tag class="attribute">xlf:id</tag> attribute, as long as:</para>
			<orderedlist numeration="arabic">
				<listitem>
					<para>They are <emphasis>not</emphasis> marked with the <tag class="attribute">its:translate='no'</tag> attribute, and:</para>
				</listitem>
				<listitem>
					<para>They do not have an <tag class="attribute">xlf:id</tag> attribute already.</para>
				</listitem>
			</orderedlist>
			<para>Furthermore, any elements which are marked with the <tag class="attribute">its:translate='yes'</tag> attribute are also marked up with a unique <tag class="attribute">xlf:id</tag> attribute, as long as they do not have an <tag class="attribute">xlf:id</tag> attribute already.</para>
			<para>The value of the <tag class="attribute">xlf:id</tag> attribute consists of the specified prefix, followed by a sequential count of the newly marked up translatable elements, starting at the next number after the number specified in the translation unit counter, if any. (The <tag class="attribute">xlf:id</tag> attribute is used in preference to <tag class="attribute">xml:id</tag> because transclusion might mean that the same translatable element occurs in several places in the same document, and <tag class="attribute">xml:id</tag> must contain unique values.)</para>
			<para>Finally, the new total number of marked up translatable elements is written out to the translation unit counter file specified by the <parameter>Carried</parameter> parameter. By default, this is assumed to be <filename>counter.xml</filename> in the same location as the input document, thus overwriting the original translation unit counter file with the new total.</para>
			<para>In theory, this stylesheet can be used to mark up any XML document, as long as a correctly formatted <link xl:href="http://www.w3.org/TR/its20/">ITS</link> rules file is supplied. However, you must make sure that any namespaces specified in the <link xl:href="http://www.w3.org/TR/its20/">ITS</link> rules file are also declared in this stylesheet.</para>
		</refsect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
