<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="ID">
	<title>DocTools</title>
	<refentry>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname></refname>
			<refpurpose></refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<synopsis></synopsis>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
<para>
  Translates any XML document into the specified languages.
</para>
<sect1 id="parameters">
  <title>Parameters</title>
  <para>
    <literal>Language</literal>
  </para>
  <para>
    <emphasis role="strong">Language</emphasis> (string) — List of ISO
    language codes, separated by <literal>;</literal>
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="input">
  <title>Input</title>
  <para>
    An XML document. You must mark up the source document with:
  </para>
  <orderedlist numeration="arabic">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        <ulink url="RDF-Translations">Translation metadata</ulink>,
        showing the location of the
        <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
        files which contain the translations of the document.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        The <literal>xlf:id</literal> attributes which uniquely identify
        each translation string.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </orderedlist>
  <para>
    In the <ulink url="RDF-Translations">translation metadata</ulink>,
    one of the specified translations should have the language code
    <literal>zxx</literal> and should point to a file which contains the
    separator text to display between each language.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="output">
  <title>Output</title>
  <para>
    A multi-lingual XML document.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="description">
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
    The stylesheet reconstructs the structure of the source file. For
    each translatable string, it looks first for the
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    file that corresponds to the <literal>zxx</literal> output language.
    If the
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    file is found, it searches for the translated string and sets that
    as the separator text; if the separator text is not specified for
    this translatable string, or if the separator text file is not
    found, a middle dot <literal> · </literal> is set as the separator
    text.
  </para>
  <para>
    The stylesheet outputs the source translatable string to the output
    file. Then, the stylesheet parses the list of target languages. For
    each target language, it first outputs the separator text. Then it
    looks for the
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    file that corresponds to the specified language. If the
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    file is found, it searches for the translated string and includes it
    in the output document. If the
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    file or the translated string are not found, the source string is
    copied to the output document again.
  </para>
  <para>
    If the translatable string is marked with the
    <literal>its:translate=&quot;no&quot;</literal> attribute, the
    source string is simply copied to the output document and the list
    of output languages is not parsed.
  </para>
  <sect2 id="note">
    <title>Note</title>
    <para>
      The language of the output document is set to
      <literal>xml:lang=&quot;mul&quot;</literal>, the ISO code for
      multiple languages.
    </para>
  </sect2>
</sect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
