<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="ID">
	<title>DocTools</title>
	<refentry>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname></refname>
			<refpurpose></refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<synopsis></synopsis>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
<para>
  Adds a language code to <literal>xml:id</literal> attributes and the
  links that refer to them.
</para>
<sect1 id="parameters">
  <title>Parameters</title>
  <para>
    <literal>[maxRecurseDepth]</literal>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        <emphasis role="strong">noFixupURI</emphasis> (URI) — the XLink
        role used to identify links which should not be fixed up;
        default <literal>http://schema.org/significantLink</literal>.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="input">
  <title>Input</title>
  <para>
    An XML document. The root element of the document must have an
    <literal>xml:lang</literal> attribute.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="output">
  <title>Output</title>
  <para>
    An XML document.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="description">
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
    This stylesheet copies the source document, and adds the language
    code specified on the document’s root element to the end of all
    <literal>xml:id</literal> attributes and all
    <literal>xl:href</literal> attributes which contain a fragment
    identifier.
  </para>
  <para>
    If you do not want the language code to be added to an
    <literal>xl:href</literal> attribute, you must add an
    <literal>xl:role</literal> attribute to the linking element and set
    its value to the URI specified by the <literal>noFixupURI</literal>
    parameter, <literal>http://schema.org/significantLink</literal> by
    default.
  </para>
  <para>
    In DocBook files, the language code is also added to all
    <literal>linkend</literal> and <literal>endterm</literal> attributes
    and to every value in <literal>arearefs</literal> attributes. This
    is not affected by the <literal>xl:role</literal> attribute.
  </para>
  <para>
    In all cases the language code is separated from the value to which
    it is added by a full stop.
  </para>
  <para>
    This stylesheet is meant to be used when combining several
    translated documents into a multi-lingual document.
  </para>
</sect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
