<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="ID">
	<title>DocTools</title>
	<refentry>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname></refname>
			<refpurpose></refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<synopsis></synopsis>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
<para>
  Converts a temporary, invalid
  <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
  file with unescaped inline markup to a valid XLIFF file with
  <literal>&lt;g&gt;</literal>, <literal>&lt;x&gt;</literal>,
  <literal>&lt;ph&gt;</literal> and <literal>&lt;mrk&gt;</literal>
  elements.
</para>
<sect1 id="parameters">
  <title>Parameters</title>
  <para>
    <literal>[DefaultNS]</literal>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        <emphasis role="strong">DefaultNS</emphasis> (URI) — The URI of
        the default namespace of the inline elements. Default is the
        DocBook namespace.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="input">
  <title>Input</title>
  <para>
    A temporary, invalid
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    document containing unescaped inline markup.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="output">
  <title>Output</title>
  <para>
    An
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    document containing <literal>&lt;g&gt;</literal>,
    <literal>&lt;ph&gt;</literal>, <literal>&lt;x&gt;</literal> and
    <literal>&lt;mrk&gt;</literal> elements. This is the format
    preferred by many translation houses.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="description">
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
    The stylesheet copies the structure and content of the input
    document to the output document. Any inline markup within the input
    document is transformed as follows.
  </para>
  <para>
    Processing instructions with no content are exported as
    <literal>&lt;x&gt;</literal> elements. The <literal>ctype</literal>
    attribute is set to <literal>x-pi-</literal> plus the name of the
    processing instruction. As an exception, the
    <literal>&lt;?linebreak?&gt;</literal> processing instruction is
    exported as an <literal>&lt;x&gt;</literal> element with
    <literal>ctype=&quot;lb&quot;</literal>.
  </para>
  <para>
    Processing instructions containing text are exported as
    <literal>&lt;ph&gt;</literal> elements. The <literal>ctype</literal>
    attribute is set to <literal>x-pi-</literal> plus the name of the
    processing instruction. The content of the processing instruction is
    exported as the content of the <literal>&lt;ph&gt;</literal>
    element.
  </para>
  <para>
    Elements containing no content are exported as
    <literal>&lt;x&gt;</literal> elements. The <literal>ctype</literal>
    attribute is set to <literal>x-</literal>, followed by the prefix
    associated with the namespace of the current element, followed by a
    hyphen, followed by the name of the current element. If the
    namespace of the element is not specified, it is assumed to be the
    namespace associated with the URI specified by the
    <literal>DefaultNS</literal> parameter — by default, DocBook.
  </para>
  <para>
    Elements containing content are exported as
    <literal>&lt;g&gt;</literal> elements. The <literal>ctype</literal>
    attribute is set to <literal>x-</literal>, followed by the prefix
    associated with the namespace of the current element, followed by a
    hyphen, followed by the name of the current element. If the
    namespace of the element is not specified, it is assumed to be the
    namespace associated with the URI specified by the
    <literal>DefaultNS</literal> parameter — by default, DocBook.
  </para>
  <para>
    The <literal>&lt;g&gt;</literal> or <literal>&lt;x&gt;</literal>
    elements have an <literal>id</literal> attribute whose value is
    unique and is based on the ID of the current translation unit.
  </para>
  <para>
    Child attributes of the elements in the input file are added to the
    <literal>&lt;g&gt;</literal> or <literal>&lt;x&gt;</literal>
    element. If the attribute is in an explicit namespace, the attribute
    is exported in the same namespace. If the attribute is in no
    namespace, it is exported in a special namespace whose prefix is
    <literal>nn</literal> and whose URI is
    <literal>urn:x-no-namespace</literal>. This is to distinguish
    between
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    attributes and attributes from the source file.
  </para>
  <para>
    There are three exceptions:
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Elements with the <literal>content:ref</literal> attribute are
        exported as <literal>&lt;ph&gt;</literal> elements whose content
        is the value of the <literal>content:ref</literal> attribute.
        This makes the translation unit read more naturally and can help
        the translators establish the correct word order and
        punctuation. The <literal>ctype</literal> and other attributes
        of this <literal>&lt;ph&gt;</literal> element are set as above.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        The <literal>its:term=&quot;yes&quot;</literal> attribute is
        exported as a child
        <literal>&lt;mrk mtype=&quot;term&quot;&gt;</literal> element
        which contains the content of the parent element.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        The <literal>its:locNote</literal> attribute is exported as a
        child <literal>&lt;mrk mtype=&quot;phrase&quot;&gt;</literal>
        element which contains the content of the parent element. The
        value of the <literal>its:locNote</literal> attribute is
        exported as a <literal>comment</literal> attribute on the
        <literal>&lt;mrk mtype=&quot;phrase&quot;&gt;</literal> element.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
  <para>
    The content of the <literal>&lt;source&gt;</literal> element is
    copied to any <literal>&lt;target&gt;</literal> element which is
    currently empty. This is to meet the requirements of translation
    houses who prefer the <literal>&lt;target&gt;</literal> element to
    start with the <literal>&lt;source&gt;</literal> text. The output of
    the <ulink url="XliffTemp.xsl">XliffTemp.xsl</ulink> stylesheet is
    intended to be used as input for this stylesheet.
  </para>
</sect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
