<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/css/Docbook.css" type="text/css"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xl="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:its="http://www.w3.org/2005/11/its"
         xmlns:xlf="urn:oasis:names:tc:xliff:document:1.2"
         xmlns:ling="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/linguistics"
         xmlns:content="http://stanleysecurity.github.io/PACBook/ns/transclusion"
         version="5.0-variant PACBook"
         its:version="2.0"
         xml:lang="en-GB"
         xml:id="ID">
	<title>DocTools</title>
	<refentry>
		<refnamediv>
			<refname></refname>
			<refpurpose></refpurpose>
		</refnamediv>
		<refsynopsisdiv>
			<synopsis></synopsis>
		</refsynopsisdiv>
<para>
  Converts an
  <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
  file with <literal>&lt;g&gt;</literal>, <literal>&lt;x&gt;</literal>,
  <literal>&lt;ph&gt;</literal> and <literal>&lt;mrk&gt;</literal>
  elements to an
  <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
  file with escaped inline markup.
</para>
<sect1 id="parameters">
  <title>Parameters</title>
  <para>
    <literal>[DefaultNS]</literal>
  </para>
  <itemizedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        <emphasis role="strong">DefaultNS</emphasis> (URI) — The URI of
        the default namespace of the inline elements. Default is the
        DocBook namespace.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="input">
  <title>Input</title>
  <para>
    An
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    document containing <literal>&lt;g&gt;</literal>,
    <literal>&lt;ph&gt;</literal>, <literal>&lt;x&gt;</literal> and
    <literal>&lt;mrk&gt;</literal> elements.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="output">
  <title>Output</title>
  <para>
    An
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    document containing escaped inline markup. This the format used by
    PACBook.
  </para>
</sect1>
<sect1 id="description">
  <title>Description</title>
  <para>
    The stylesheet copies the structure and content of the input
    document to the output document. Any <literal>&lt;g&gt;</literal>,
    <literal>&lt;ph&gt;</literal>, <literal>&lt;x&gt;</literal> and
    <literal>&lt;mrk&gt;</literal> elements within the
    <literal>&lt;source&gt;</literal> elements in the input document are
    transformed as follows.
  </para>
  <para>
    Any <literal>&lt;x&gt;</literal> elements whose
    <literal>ctype</literal> attribute is <literal>lb</literal> are
    exported as escaped <literal>&lt;?linebreak?&gt;</literal>
    processing instructions.
  </para>
  <para>
    Any <literal>&lt;x&gt;</literal> elements whose
    <literal>ctype</literal> attribute starts with
    <literal>x-pi-</literal> are exported as escaped processing
    instructions with no content. The name of the processing instruction
    is taken from the <literal>ctype</literal> attribute.
  </para>
  <para>
    Any <literal>&lt;ph&gt;</literal> elements whose
    <literal>ctype</literal> attribute starts with
    <literal>x-pi-</literal> are exported as escaped processing
    instructions with content. The name of the processing instruction is
    taken from the <literal>ctype</literal> attribute. The content of
    the <literal>&lt;ph&gt;</literal> element is exported as the content
    of the processing instruction.
  </para>
  <para>
    Any other <literal>&lt;x&gt;</literal> elements are exported as
    escaped elements containing no content. The namespace and name of
    the element are taken from the <literal>ctype</literal> attribute.
    If the namespace of the element is the same as the namespace
    specified by the <literal>DefaultNS</literal> parameter — by
    default, DocBook — the namespace prefix is not output.
  </para>
  <para>
    Any other <literal>&lt;ph&gt;</literal> elements are exported as
    escaped elements containing no content. The namespace and name of
    the element are taken from the <literal>ctype</literal> attribute.
    If the namespace of the element is the same as the namespace
    specified by the <literal>DefaultNS</literal> parameter — by
    default, DocBook — the namespace prefix is not output. The content
    of the <literal>&lt;ph&gt;</literal> element is exported as a
    <literal>content:ref</literal> attribute on the exported element.
  </para>
  <para>
    Any <literal>&lt;g&gt;</literal> elements are exported as escaped
    elements containing content. The namespace and name of the element
    are taken from the <literal>ctype</literal> attribute. If the
    namespace of the element is the same as the namespace specified by
    the <literal>DefaultNS</literal> parameter — by default, DocBook —
    the namespace prefix is not output.
  </para>
  <para>
    Child attributes of the <literal>&lt;g&gt;</literal> or
    <literal>&lt;x&gt;</literal> element are added to the elements in
    the output file. If the attribute is in an explicit namespace, the
    attribute is exported in the same namespace. If the attribute is in
    the <literal>urn:x-no-namespace</literal> namespace, it is exported
    in no namespace. If the attribute is in no namespace or the
    <ulink url="http://docs.oasis-open.org/xliff/v1.2/os/xliff-core.html">XLIFF</ulink>
    namespace, it is ignored.
  </para>
  <para>
    Any <literal>&lt;mrk mtype=&quot;term&quot;&gt;</literal> elements
    are exported as <literal>its:term=&quot;yes&quot;</literal>
    attributes on the parent exported element. The content of the
    <literal>&lt;mrk&gt;</literal> element becomes the content of the
    parent exported element.
  </para>
  <para>
    Any <literal>&lt;mrk mtype=&quot;phrase&quot;&gt;</literal> elements
    are exported as <literal>its:locNote</literal> attributes on the
    parent exported element. The value of the <literal>comment</literal>
    attribute is exported as value of the <literal>its:locNote</literal>
    attribute. The content of the <literal>&lt;mrk&gt;</literal> element
    becomes the content of the parent exported element.
  </para>
  <para>
    Any <literal>&lt;g&gt;</literal>, <literal>&lt;ph&gt;</literal>,
    <literal>&lt;x&gt;</literal> and <literal>&lt;mrk&gt;</literal>
    elements within the <literal>&lt;target&gt;</literal> elements in
    the input document are transformed as above, using the attributes of
    the corresponding <literal>&lt;g&gt;</literal>,
    <literal>&lt;ph&gt;</literal>, <literal>&lt;x&gt;</literal> and
    <literal>&lt;mrk&gt;</literal> elements within the associated
    <literal>&lt;source&gt;</literal> element.
  </para>
  <para>
    This stylesheet forms a round trip with the
    <ulink url="XliffTemp.xsl">XliffTemp.xsl</ulink> and
    <ulink url="XliffTag.xsl">XliffTag.xsl</ulink> stylesheets.
  </para>
</sect1>
	</refentry>
</article>
